{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 High water is as serious as low water, but for different reasons. Low water can lead to boiler damage, while high water leads to turbine damage. If the water level in the boiler drum is too high, moisture will enter the dry pipe, pass through the superheater, and enter the main engine, turbogenerators, or auxiliary turbines. This situation is known as *carryover*.\
\
Carryover is bad for steam turbines. The thermal and mechanical shock of moisture impact on the blades can cause damage to the turbine blades and thrust bearings, and also blow out gaskets and damage connecting steam piping. In addition, the entrained boiler water contains dissolved and suspended solids which will leave deposits on superheater tubes, valves, and turbine blades. Deposits on superheaters tubes cause corrosion, overheating, and tube failure. Deposit build-up on reducing valves, governor valves or throttles can cause them to stick, resulting in loss of control. In the worst case, this could lead to turbine over-speeding. Solid particles in the steam cause erosion of the turbine blades, damaging them and reducing turbine efficiency, and build up on the blades causes rotor imbalance and vibration. [Chapter 16][#GE]\
\
The main indication of a high water situation is given by the boiler high level alarm and boiler gage glass.  Carryover is indicated by a dramatic drop in superheat temperature. Note that a high level in the steam drum will be accompanied by a low level in the DC heater, and vice versa, so when the DC heater is low, check the drum level before taking on make-up feed. Also, a completely full gage glass looks identical to a completely empty one. One way to tell the difference is to blow down the glass, which should bring a high level into view.\
\
High water is usually caused by too much feedwater entering the boiler, either due to high feed pump discharge pressure, or to problems with the feedwater regulator.  \
\
Other causes include boiler *swell* and poor boiler water quality. Swell is a rapid expansion of the steam-water mixture in the drum, caused by a sudden drop in drum pressure associated with an increase in steam demand.  Swell typically occurs during maneuvering, soot blowing, or when boiler safeties pop.  Swell can be minimized by opening throttles gradually.  \
\
Boiler water containing chlorides, high solids concentrations, high alkalinity, or oil contamination promotes the formation of stable bubbles in the boiler water, called foam.  This foam builds up in the drum and allows the contaminants to enter the dry pipe and carry over.   Foam also causes erroneous water level readings and confuses the feedwater regulator. Foaming and the resulting problems can be avoided by proper attention to boiler water treatment.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}