{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, slips, trips, and falls cause nearly 700 fatalities per year and many more injurious accidents in the workplace,\
Common trip and fall hazards include obstructions on walkways, such as cables, tools, or equipment left in pathways. Uneven surfaces, loose gratings, and obstructions, can also contribute to tripping incidents. Additionally, poor lighting, cluttered work areas, improper storage of materials, and inadequate lighting can increase the risk of trips and falls.  \
Spilled liquids, oils, or water can make surfaces extremely slippery. Wet surfaces due to cleaning or maintenance activities, and the presence of loose debris are additional factors that can contribute to slip incidents.\
Falls can be particularly dangerous when you are working at above the ground, such as on a ladder, scaffolding or staging.\
Aboard ship, additional hazards exist due to the dynamic and often wet environment. Obstructions such as hatch combings, pad-eyes and container hold-downs can cause individuals to trip. Slip hazards arise from seawater or rainwater on deck surfaces, spilled liquids in galley areas, or lubricants used for machinery maintenance.  In rough seas, the motion of the ship can cause unsecured objects to fall, or cause you to lose your balance and fall. You must be particularly careful when working at heights or over the side. Always follow the old adage, \'93one hand for the ship and one hand for yourself.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}