{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 A *hot* bearing is one which is operating above its normal temperature, where *normal* depends on the bearing, the load on the bearing, and the shaft speed. A hot bearing should be watched carefully and rectified before it becomes *uncontrollably hot*.  A bearing is considered \
uncontrollably hot when it reaches 180 \'b0F, has a 50 \'b0F rise across the bearing, or is increasing rapidly and cannot be controlled. The most effective treatment of a hot bearing is to immediately slow down the main engine, which which will reduce the frictional load on the bearing.\
\
The main propulsion system and the turbogenerators, use *plain* bearings to maintain critical radial and axial alignment between the turbine and casings, gears and line shaft.  Plain bearings, which includes cylindrical journal bearings and Kingsbury thrust bearings, are designed to safely transmit the dynamic loads, weight, and thrust of the shaft to the stationary structure of the ship.  They also serve to maintain the radial and axial position of the rotating parts, which is critical to prevent vibration and unwanted contact. \
\
Plain bearings have two surfaces -- one moving, one stationary -- separated by a wedge of lubricating oil. The oil film prevents the friction and wear resulting from localized welding that occurs when the parts come in contact with each other. The moving element is usually polished steel, either an integral part of the shaft, or a replaceable sleeve, and the stationary surface is usually a *babbitt* coated shell attached to steal backing. A properly designed and lubricated plain bearing has a higher load carrying capacity, a lower coefficient of friction, and a longer life than an equivalent rolling contact bearing.\
\
Babbitt is a soft, white-metal alloy which has excellent bearing properties.  It is a mixture of about 90% tin and 10% mixture of antimony and copper, with traces of lead, iron, arsenic, bismuth, zinc, aluminum, and cadmium.  Babbitt has a ductile composition which enables it to conform to the moving surfaces and promote the formation of a lubricant film.  Foreign particles will embed themselves into the soft babbitt rather than score the shaft.  \
\
Unfortunately babbitt metal has a low melting temperature. If the bearing is allowed to overheat it will soften like butter and the bearing will *wipe*.  Therefore babbitted bearings must be operated within strict temperature limits to avoid serious damage to the plant.  A wiped bearing can stop the ship.\
\
A bearing will not wipe if it is supplied with enough cool, high quality lube oil of the correct viscosity to form an oil wedge and carry away frictional heat.  Any bearing that is uncomfortably hot to touch should be watched carefully, as should any bearing that is operating hotter than it normally does.\
\
When starting up machinery, you should observe the bearing temperatures carefully.  A bearing temperature of 160 \'b0F may be of no concern if it rose to that value gradually, while the engine is operating at full speed.  The same bearing would be a concern if it suddenly spiked to that value in a short period for no apparent reason.  When starting up, a temperature rise of more than about one degree per minute should be investigated.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}