{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Steam turbines like the main engine and the turbogenerators are designed to exhaust to a condenser operating at a very low absolute pressure, which we usually call a *high vacuum*.  The vacuum in the condenser directly affects the efficiency of the turbine. As vacuum is lost, the turbine will slow and overheat. When the vacuum gets sufficiently low, the turbine should be secured to prevent damage.  \
\
Vacuum and condenser shell temperature are closely related through the properties of saturated steam.  When the condenser starts loses vacuum, the shell temperature rises, and when the shell temperature rises, the condenser loses vacuum.  Either symptom can be the cause of the other.\
\
Condenser vacuum depends on two factors -- the partial pressure of the steam, and the partial pressure of the air (and other non-condensable gases) in the condenser shell.   In fact, the absolute pressure in the condenser is just the sum of these two partial pressures.  If either goes up,  the vacuum goes down. Loss of vacuum can be traced to situations which increase either of these two factors. [Chapter 6][#elwakil]\
\
The partial pressure of the steam in the condenser is simply the saturation pressure of steam at the condensing temperature. You can look it up in the steam tables -- pressure depends on temperature. Anything that causes the average temperature in the condenser to rise will lead to loss of vacuum.  This will occur when the sea temperature rises, or with any problem that leads to a reduction of the cooling water supply.  Overloading the condenser with too much steam will also cause the average temperature to rise, because the condensing demand is greater than the cooling water supply.   Finally, if the condensate level in the condenser rises too high, it will submerge some condensing tubes and prevent them from removing heat, leading to higher average temperatures and loss of vacuum.\
\
The partial pressure of the air and non-condensable gases depends on the quantity in the condenser shell -- more non-condensables means lower vacuum.  Since the condenser shell is under a vacuum and is not completely air tight, some inward air leakage is inevitable. Gases that leak in must be removed or the condenser shell pressure will rise and vacuum will drop.  Furthermore, air and non-condensable gases blanket the condenser tubes which reduces condenser effectiveness, and dissolved oxygen in feedwater causes corrosion the boiler.  \
\
Air removal is the job of the air ejector or on some ships, the vacuum pump.  Excessive leakage will overwhelm the air ejector.  If gases enter the condenser faster than they can be removed, vacuum will be lost, so sources of air leakage must be found and eliminated. Finally, any situation that leads to a reduction in performance of the air removal device will lead to loss of vacuum.  \
\
Any number of operational problems can lead to loss of vacuum, including:\
\
*	Overloaded condenser\
\
	-	Overloaded turbine  -- reduce load.\
	-	High sea temperature -- reduce load.\
	-	Excessive dumping from auxiliary exhaust unloader -- may be caused by  failure of the unloader, failure or incorrectly set auxiliary exhaust make-up valve, or high auxiliary exhaust pressure.\
\
\
*	Insufficient cooling water\
\
	-	Sea water pump stopped or tripped -- restart, or cross over from another pump.\
	-	Coolant flow restricted with seaweed, mud, sand, silt, marine life in condenser -- shut down and clean the condenser.\
	-	Circulation system not lined up properly --  check all valves opened properly.\
	-	Condenser shell air bound -- vent the shell.\
	-	Vessel has insufficient way on to use scoop injection -- change over to main circulation pump.\
\
*	Flooded hot well\
\
	-	Condensate recirculation valve open too wide -- close or throttle it.\
	-	Condensate pump tripped off -- restart or switch to stand-by pump.\
	-	Incorrect valve line-up -- check that suction, discharges, seal water line, casing vent line are open.\
	-	Condensate leaking back into condenser through an idle pump -- check suction, discharge, and seal valves.\
\
*	Air leakage\
\
	-	Air leaks at turbine glands --  insufficient gland sealing steam, adjust to between 1\'bd to 2 psi.\
	-	Air leaking past turbine glands -- glands are worn, replace at first opportunity.\
	-	Air leaking through idle condensate pump -- secure vent on idle pump.\
	-	Vacuum dragging from a dry make up feed tank - switch tanks.\
	-	Vacuum dragging an empty ADT -- caused by inattention or float level control malfunction, close   drag valve until the ADT refills.\
	-	Evaporator feed heater drains open to the atmosphere.\
	-	LP drains from first stage heater open to the atmosphere.\
	-	LP vent from first stage heater open to the atmosphere.\
	-	Casing or condenser shell cracks.\
	-	Expansion joint leaks.\
\
*	Air ejector problems\
\
	-	Low pressure air ejector steam -- adjust regulator or cross over to stand-by 600/150 psi reducing station.\
	-	Blocked or worn air ejector steam nozzle -- switch to stand-by set and replace.\
	-	Condensate water flow inadequate, air ejector condenser overheating --  open condensate recirculation valve,  check condensate outlet valve, check pump.\
	-	Condensate loop seal blown out --  refill from condensate pump discharge connection.\
	-	Air ejector overloaded -- reduce air leakage.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}