{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Before injection can be effective, the fuel pressure must be sufficiently higher than that of the combustion chamber to overcome the compression pressure. The high pressure also ensures penetration and distribution of the fuel in the combustion chamber. Proper dispersion is essential if the fuel is to mix thoroughly with the air and to bum efficiently. While pressure is a prime contributing factor, the dispersion of the fuel is influenced, in part, by atomization and penetration of the fuel. (Penetration is the distance through which the fuel particles are carried by the kinetic energy imparted to them as they leave the injector or nozzle. Friction between the fuel and the air in the combustion space absorbs this energy.) \
If the atomization process reduces the size of the fuel particles too much, they will lack penetration. Lack of sufficient penetration results in ignition of the small particles of fuel before they have been properly distributed or dispersed in the combustion space. Since penetration and atomization tend to oppose each other, a degree of compromise in each is necessary in the design of fuel injection equipment, particularly if uniform distribution of fuel within the combustion chamber is to be obtained. The pressure required for efficient injection and, in turn, proper dispersion is dependent on the compression pressure in the cylinder, the size of the opening through which the fuel enters the combustion space, the shape of the combustion space, and the amount of turbulence created in the combustion space. \
To control an engine means to keep it running at a desired speed, either in accordance with, or regardless of, the changes in the load carried by the engine. The degree of control required depends upon two factors: the engine's performance characteristics, and the type of load which it drives. \
In diesel engines, a varying amount of fuel is mixed with a constant amount of compressed air inside the cylinder. A full charge of air enters the cylinder during each intake event. The amount of fuel injected into the cylinders controls combustion and thus determines the speed and power output of a diesel engine. A governor is provided to regulate the flow of fuel. \
Other devices, either integral with the governor or mounted separately on the engine, are used to control overspeed or overload.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}