{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 If the main lube oil pump fails, the stand-by pump is supposed to automatically start and pick up the load.  Upon hearing a lube oil pressure alarm, you should immediately verify that the stand-by pump has started and that there is flow through the bull's eye.  If this is the case, the casualty has been averted and all that remains is to discover and repair the cause of the original failure.\
\
If the stand-by pump does not start you must **immediately stop and  lock the shaft**.  The governor will close the ahead throttles, but the vessel's way will keep the propellor and shaft turning.  To stop the shaft, open the astern guardian valve and the astern throttle and admit enough steam to bring the shaft to a complete halt.   To lock the shaft, engage the jacking gear.   If the ship happens to be going astern at the time of the casualty, it will be more difficult to stop the shaft with the ahead throttle because  it will be held closed by the low lube oil trip.  To open it you will need to manually override the trip by using the emergency lever on the throttle assembly to jack open the governor valve.  See [](#turbinecontrol) for more information.\
\
A sudden stop of the engine will impact the plant -- the drum level will first swell as the astern turbine brings the shaft to a hault, then shrink when throttles are closed; boiler pressure will build up and safeties may lift, and it will be necessary to cut out burners.  Turbine extractions will need to be changed over to live steam. If the turbine will be out of service for longer than about five minutes, the main condenser vacuum should be broken, and make-up feed, vacuum drag, and auxiliary exhaust dump changed over to an auxiliary condenser.\
\
Restoration of service should include identifying and correcting the root cause, and an inspection of the bearings for damage.  Shift and clean the lube oil strainers and look for metal debris in the baskets.  Remove bearing covers and inspect, starting with the most remote and the hottest bearings to look for signs of damage.  
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}