{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One of the most serious casualties you may encounter is low water in the boiler. It is essential that you always maintain a water level in the boiler, or risk serious tube damage or even a boiler explosion.  The boiler gage glasses are designed to span the safe operating range of the boiler water level. If water ever goes out of sight in the glass, the boiler must be secured immediately until the cause can be determined and rectified. Multiple water level indicators and high and low level alarms should give sufficient warning before serious damage occurs.  The main fuel oil solenoids will close and shut off fuel to the boiler upon receiving a low-low level alarm.\
A low water casualty can occur gradually or suddenly, and can affect one or both boilers.   The onset of the condition may give you some clues as to the cause of the problem. For example, if both boiler are dropping the problem is probably with the feedwater supply.  If only only one boiler is affected, the problem lies with the feedwater regulator or feed line, or within the boiler.\
Low water can be caused by:\
\
*	Incorrect Set Points -- If the feed pump governor or the feedwater regulator system automatic settings are incorrect they can be corrected by judicious adjustment. If the load on the boiler changes significantly it may be necessary to manually adjust these set points. \
* 	Low Feed Pump Discharge Pressure -- This situation can be caused by a number of problems. Among the possibilities: low steam pressure to the feed pump, high auxiliary exhaust pressure, the feed pump recirc line open too wide, or the feed pump discharge recirculating back to the DC heater through the idle feed pump. Low auxiliary exhaust pressure, or low DC heater level may cause the hot feedwater at the pump suction to flash to steam, resulting in the pump overspeeding and tripping out. An empty DC heater will starve the feed pump. In any of these events, the root cause must be corrected and pump discharge pressure restored before the water level in the boiler drops out of sight. \
* 	Feed pump failure -- If the feed pump shaft or bearings fail the pump will quickly come to a stop, and the watch engineer must bring the stand-by unit into service before the water level in the boilers is lost.\
*	Boiler Tube Failure -- Tube failure may be the cause of low water in the boiler, or it may be the result, because the operator has let the water level get too low and tubes have overheated. In either case the boiler must be secured immediately. See the procedure for forced boiler shutdown in [](#forcedshut-down). \
\
Low water can result in:\
\
*	Boiler tube failure\
*	Loss of steam pressure\
*	Loss of electrical power to auxiliaries\
*	Loss of propulsion}