{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green124\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c25098\c48627\c74902;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Without elbows, it is impossible to think of a piping system on ship, especially in a limited place of installation. Elbows give flexibility for directing and building the piping system leading to saving of space and material.\
Different types of elbows are used in the piping system of ships as per the space and design of installation.\
 * Male Elbow\
A male elbow is a fitting with male threads on both sides and is used for changing the direction of the piping. They fix on to female threads of the fittings on both sides. They come in various angles like 45 degrees and 90 degrees.\
* Female Elbow\
A female elbow is a pipe fitting that is used to change the direction of the piping and has female threads on both sides, which allow for fixing pipes or fittings with male threads. They come in various angles like 45 degrees and 90 degrees.\
* Street Elbow\
A street elbow is different from the male and female elbows in the respect that it has a male thread on one side and a female thread on other side. The advantage of using the street elbow is that it can directly fix to the pipe without connecting a nipple. They come in various angles like 45 degrees and 90 degrees.\
* Reducing Street Elbow\
A reducing street elbow is a pipe fitting that has male thread on one side and unequal female threads on other side. They are used for altering the direction of flow as well as joining pipes of two different sizes. They come in various angles like 45 degrees and 90 degrees.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}