{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 There are several methods used to perform tank soundings.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs32 The sounding tape value is later used in calculation of the final sounding value, which is derived using the sounding table, taking the list and trim of the ship into account and the temperature at which the fluid (specifically for oil) is stored (as density of oil is affected by temperature).
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f0\fs32 Is it necessary to take soundings of various tanks every day? Yes. \
In some cases, the sounding has to be taken in every watch. A ship is a floating factory with several mechanical systems working continuously. These systems require fuel oil, lube oil and water to operate, and these fluids are consumed from service tanks or sump tanks. The service and sump tanks on a ship need to be sounded every watch to ensure the level is maintained. \
The service tanks and sump tanks levels are maintained by filling them up with appropriate fluid using storage tanks, which are sounded once in a day. \
Methods for taking sounding on a ship \
Certain cargos carried on ships are toxic, hazardous and inflammable, hence various methods are provided on a ship to measure the volume in the tank. Some of the most common gauging methods used on ships are:
\f2\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}