{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green128\blue214;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 What is force? In simple terms, a force is a push or a pull. \
More precisely, a force is a vector quantity which tends to produce an acceleration of a body in the direction of its  application. This means that if you want a stationary object to move, you must apply a force  to it to get it going. If you want to keep it moving, you need to continuously apply a force  to it to overcome friction, which is itself a force. Forces can exist without motion too \'96  when an object is stationary it\'92s usually because there are many forces acting on it which  cancel each other out, leaving no net force acting on the object. Forces always occur in  pairs. A push on an object is always accompanied by an equal and opposite force acting on the  pusher. \
In the English system of units, force is measured in pounds, tons, or long tons. \
In the SI  system, force is measured in newtons (
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 \\N\{\}
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 )  or kilonewtons (
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 \\kN\{\}
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 ).  The newton is a derived unit, equal  to the product of mass and acceleration. <me>\\N\{\} =  \\mathrm\{kg\}\\cdot  \{\\mathrm\{m\}\}/\{\\mathrm\{s\}^2\}</me>\
For estimation purposes, a newton is about a quarter of a pound. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}