{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 The boiler tubes connect the steam drum to the water drum, roughly in the shape of a letter <q>D.</q> A boiler may contain perhaps 2000 tubes, most of which are considered <em>generating tubes</em>, where the majority of the steam produced by the boiler is formed. As the steam formed in the generating tubes rises up to the steam drum, it must be replaced with cooler water from the steam drum. This water is carried down through tubes located in cooler areas of the boiler, known as <em>downcomers</em>. A typical generating tube would be about 1 to 1\'bd inch diameter, while the downcomers are larger; 3 to 11 inches in diameter. \
The roof, rear, and side <em>waterwall tubes</em> run up the sides and ceiling in the furnace area to protect the furnace walls from too much heat. These tubes normally act as downcomers, carrying water from the steam drum down to the water drum, but at high firing rates may act as generating tubes. Since waterwall tubes absorb the heat of the furnace, less refractory material is required to insulate the boiler, which reduces the total boiler weight. \
The first few rows of tubes in the gas path are known as <em>Screen tubes</em>. Their location between the burner flames and the <em>superheater tubes</em> protects the <em>superheater</em> from the direct radiant heat of the flame. \
\
 <em>Headers</em> are circular or square pressure vessels, used to distribute water to the boiler tubes. The <em>side wall</em> and <em>rear wall</em> headers are supplied with water from a downcomer, and distribute it to the side and rear wall tubes, and in some boiler designs, a <em>screen tube</em> header distributes water to the screen tubes. Sludge accumulates in the headers, and they must be blown down periodically like the water drum. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}