{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red6\green20\blue127;\red65\green107\blue34;\red97\green16\blue51;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c2000\c14900\c57300;\cssrgb\c31800\c48600\c17600;\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;
}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Making a thorough inspection round is an important part of being a professional marine engineer. The round will enable you to become familiar with the \'93normal\'94 operating conditions of the plant, i.e. temperatures, pressures, vibrations, noises, liquid levels and odors. As problems develop, you will recognize small variations and catch them before they develop into larger problems. You will learn which machines are running, which will reduce the time necessary to restart a tripped machine, or to start up a stand-by unit in an emergency. You will note which tanks are in service and their levels, to insure that you have sufficient fuel oil, lube oil and feedwater to complete the watch. \
\pard\tx720\tx1395\sb400\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f1\fs32 When you make an engine room round, you should: <ul>\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 Feel all motors for temperature and vibration. The ends of the motors will give an indication of the condition of the bearings. Heat generated on the motor sides may mean a motor overload or a cooling problem.\
Check pump bearings and packing glands for excessive temperature or leakage. Leaking glands should be carefully tightened to minimize leakage into the bilge.\
Be observant as you move from space to space.  Note any leaks, unusual vibrations, heat, smells or noises as you move from space to space. \
Check bilge levels for water or oil.  \
Maintain good housekeeping. Leaks and spills, burned out light bulbs, loose tools, trash, etc. should be attended to.\
Note the operation of gages and other instrumentation. A properly ranged gage will have the needle near the mid position (12 o\'92clock) during normal operation. A gage which never appears to move may be faulty, and should be replaced.  Note mis-calibrated gages in the maintenance log.\
Observe and log all pressures and temperatures to see that they remain normal. Compare your observations with recent readings in the logbook, and look back to identify trends. Subtle changes in pressures or temperatures may indicate developing machinery problems.\
Check the oil level in machinery sumps regularly; if changes occur, investigate for leaks. Samples of oil should be tested regularly to check for water leaks and acidity.\
Observe and log the main engines and auxiliary machinery oil and cooling water temperatures \
Check the instrumentation on the main switchboard, to note the electrical load and check for grounds.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 \CocoaLigature0 <!$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\fs28 \
<!--todo  discuss this with operating engineers -->\
\
</ul></p>\
}