{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red6\green20\blue127;\red65\green107\blue34;
\red97\green16\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c2000\c14900\c57300;\cssrgb\c31800\c48600\c17600;
\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;}
\pard\tx720\tx1395\sb400\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::4><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs32 Speed
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Cs::4>
\f2\fs32  is a scalar quantity that describes how fast an object is moving. It is the rate at which an object covers distance. Speed does not have a direction; it only has magnitude. There are different ways to measure speed: <ul marker="">\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::4><!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\b\fs28 Instantaneous Speed
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Cs::4>
\f3\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  is the speed of an object at a particular moment in time. Imagine looking at a car's speedometer at a specific instant; the reading is the car's instantaneous speed.\

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::4>
\f3\b\fs28 Average Speed
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Cs::4>
\f3\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  the instantaneous speed averaged over a period of time. Average speed is calculated by dividing the total distance traveled by the total time taken to travel that distance. <me>\\text\{Average Speed\} = \\frac\{\\text\{Total Distance\}\}\{\\text\{Total Time\}\}</me> \

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::4>
\f3\b\fs28 Rotational Speed
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Cs::4>
\f3\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  refers to how fast an object rotates or spins. It is often measured in revolutions per minute (RPM) or radians per second.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf5 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f3\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 </ul></p>\
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::3>
\f2\fs32 A 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::4>
\f1\b\fs32 knot
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::4>
\f2\fs32  is a unit used to describe the speed of ships.  One knot is equal to one nautical mile per hour, which is approximately 1.15 miles per hour or 1.85 km/hour.  
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::3>}