{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 When water boils, it occurs at a particular temperature which is determined by the pressure of the surroundings. For example, water at atmospheric pressure always boils at 212 \'b0F, while water at 600 psia always boils at 486 \'b0F. This boiling temperature is known as the <em>saturation temperature</em> and it can easily be determined from the steam tables found in . At a given pressure, the steam\'92s temperature can be raised above the corresponding saturation temperature by adding additional heat to the steam, but this must occur in an area where there is no liquid water present, or the additional heat would simply boil more water and would not raise the steam temperature at all. Raising steam temperature above the saturation temperature is known as <em>superheating</em> and the <em>degree of superheat</em> refers to the difference between the steam temperature and the saturation temperature corresponding to the steam\'92s pressure. For example, 600 psia, 600 \'b0F steam would have 114 degrees of superheat, since it is 114 degrees above the corresponding saturation temperature. \
In marine boilers, superheating occurs in the <em>superheater</em>. The superheater is a series of boiler tubes located in the hottest part of the gas path, but screened from the radiant heat of the furnace behind three or more rows of <em>screen tubes</em>. Heat is added to the superheater primarily by convection. The superheater tubes and headers may be installed either horizontally or vertically. \
All the steam formed in the generating tubes rises up to the steam drum and flows into the dry pipe, and from there the steam, which is dry and at saturation temperature, enters the superheater header and is distributed to the superheater tubes. There, the steam picks up sensible heat, which increases the energy content of the steam, improving the overall steam cycle efficiency and reducing fuel consumption. The steam leaves the boiler at the superheater outlet. At the outlet you will find a <em>superheater vent</em> and a <em>superheater safety valve</em> followed by the main and turbogenerator steam stop valves. \
The degree of superheat created in the superheater is determined by several factors, including the temperature of the feedwater, the load on the boiler, and the number and location of burners in use. These factors are not adjustable by the engineer, so the superheater outlet temperature is not under his direct control. A boiler of this type is known as an<em>uncontrolled superheat</em> boiler. Other boiler designs provide a means to control the superheat temperature independent of the above factors, and are known as <em>controlled superheat</em> boilers. \
The superheater elements are normally filled entirely with steam, not water. Since no boiling occurs there, all the heat transferred to the superheater tubes must be carried away by the steam flowing through the tubes, or else they will quickly overheat and burn out, destroying the boiler. Whenever there is a fire in the boiler and no steam flow leaving the boiler, the superheater vent must be opened manually by the engineer to protect the superheater from overheating. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}