{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Piping inlet and outlet connections are fitted to the body 180\'b0 apart  
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 only
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 ,    similar to the straight globe valve. Piping connections to the body are the same as a   globe valve: threaded, flanged, etc. \
The body has two seats inside facing each other. One surrounds the inlet opening and   the other the outlet opening. The distance between the seats nearest the bonnet opening   is greater than the distance between the seats at the bottom of the valve body creating   a wedge shape between them. The gate is moved down from the bonnet location between the   two seats. It has a machined surface on both sides and has a wedge shape that matches   the two seats forcing it to seal tightly against both seats when it is pushed down   between them. \
The upper part of the body and sometimes the lower part of the bonnet form a large   cavity for the gate to retract into as the valve is opened. Since the gate slides off   the seats sideways, it must be moved more than the full diameter of the seat opening to   be fully open. This is why most gate valves are taller than globe valves of a comparable   size. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}