{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Loss of feed pressure can lead to a low water casualty if not rectified, so it must be attended to quickly. The symptoms are low pressure on the feed pump discharge gage, and a gradual or sudden drop in the steam drum level. Also as the drum level falls, the feedwater regulator will open wide as it tries to compensate.\
\
Low feed pump discharge pressure can be caused by three different, possibly related, causes.\
\
The first is outright failure of the feed pump or governor.  In this case, there will not be enough water delivered to the boiler to meet the demand. However, steam will continue to leave the boiler and the condensate pump will continue move it to the DC heater, so the steam drum level will fall, and the DC heater level will rise as a result.\
\
The second, more common cause, is loss of suction at the feed pump.  If the DC heater is allowed to go dangerously low, either by inattentive watchstanding, or by failure of the automatic make-up feed regulator, the feed pump will have nothing to pump.  This, obviously, should be avoided.\
\
The feed pump will also lose suction if it becomes vapor bound.  The feed pump is designed to pump water; it won't pump when there is vapor at the suction, and may actually overspeed and trip out.  Since feedwater in the DC heater is at saturation temperature, it will flash to steam (vapor) when its pressure is reduced even slightly.  The DC heater is located high in the engineroom to provide enough static head to prevent this flashing.  However, when the DC heater level is low, the static head is reduced and flashing may occur.  Flashing may also occur if the pressure in the DC heater suddenly drops lower than normal. This can be caused by introducing large quantities of cold make-up water into the DC heater, condensing the steam there, or by a sudden drop in the auxiliary exhaust pressure.  A noisy or racing feed pump, low suction pressure, and fluctuating discharge pressures are signs of vapor binding. Additionally, at low loads the recirc valve needs to be open to prevent overheating of water and flashing to vapor at the suction eye. \
\
The third is as load increases on the boiler and more water is needed in the boiler the recirc valve needs to be closed. At even higher loads the feed pump nozzle needs to be opened.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}