{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green124\blue191;\red66\green66\blue66;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c25098\c48627\c74902;\cssrgb\c32941\c32941\c32941;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 A nipple is basically a pipe with male threads on each side to facilitate joining two pipes or fittings with similar female threads.\
It is made by cutting threads on both sides of a pipe by die or a suitable process. The nipples may be short or long.\
* Hexagonal Reducer Nipple\
A hexagonal reducer nipple is a hexagonal shaped nipple with two different sizes of threads on each side.\
The purpose of the hexagonal reducer nipple is to connect the pipes of two different sizes together\
* Hexagonal Nipple\
A hexagonal nipple is a pipe connector with male threads on both sides and a hexagonal nut in between for easy installation and screwing.\
Both sides are to be screwed in pipe or fitting having reciprocating female threads.\
 *Hexagonal Long Nipple\
A hexagonal long nipple is used where the distance between the pipe and the fittings is to be joined.\
They are otherwise similar to the hexagonal nipples apart from the length.\
* Long Pipe Nipple\
A long pipe nipple is similar to a standard nipple but longer in length\
It is used when there is more distance between the fittings or when a fitting like a valve is to be put at a distance.\
 * Close Nipple\
A close nipple is completely threaded\
and there is no unthreaded area.\
This means that there is no hexagonal nut of plain pipe for putting the wrench. These can be damaged by using wrenches. Therefore, a special tool called nipple wrench, which holds the nipple from inside, is used for fitting.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_Ps::0>
\fs28 A nipple is a short piece of pipe that is used as a fitting to connect piping in plumbing applications. Nipple fittings are produced in various materials, although stainless steel nipples are the most common due to their strength and durability.\
Stainless steel nipples are usually made with male pipe thread (MPT) connections on both ends, connecting two separate female threaded pipes and fittings. The connection allows for a watertight seal between the fittings.\
Stainless steel nipples are primarily used in low-pressure piping systems, and the type of nipple used will vary with the size, temperature, and working pressure of the system. Therefore, depending on the specific application, there are various types of pipe nipples to choose from. This article will outline the uses of different types of stainless steel nipples.\

\f2\b\fs38 CLOSE PIPE/RUNNING PIPE NIPPLE\

\f0\b0\fs28 A close pipe nipple is a stainless steel nipple that does not have an unthreaded section in the middle. These types of pipe nipples are also known as running nipples. These pipe nipples are designed such that connected fittings come very close to one another, leaving very little of the pipe nipple exposed.\
Generally, close or running pipe nipples are difficult to work with as they can easily become damaged upon removal unless specialty equipment is used.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf3 SHOULDER PIPE NIPPLE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 Shoulder pipe nipples are longer than close nipples and have a very small section of unthreaded pipe in the middle. However, this unthreaded section is not large enough to fit a pipe wrench to remove the nipple.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf3 HEXAGONAL PIPE NIPPLE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 Also known as a Hex pipe nipple, these are designed with a hexagonal-shaped middle section. This allows one to securely grasp the nipple with a wrench to tighten or remove it. This design feature provides a greater mechanical advantage than that of a normally rounded nipple. Hence, hex pipe nipples are used in various applications where nipples need to be regularly removed or replaced.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf3 REDUCING/UNEQUAL PIPE NIPPLE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 Reducing or unequal pipe nipples are designed to allow a female fitting with a large connection to attach to a relatively smaller one. These are normally used for piping systems where a change in pipe dimension and flow pressure is necessary.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf3 HOSE PIPE NIPPLE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 A Hose pipe nipple is designed with a male threaded connection on one end and a hose barb on the other end. These are normally used for piping systems that require a pipe to be connected to tubing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs38 \cf3 WELDING PIPE NIPPLE\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 A welding pipe nipple has a male threaded connection on one end and a standard cut pipe on the other end. Once the unthreaded end is welded and connected, fitting a pipe to the threaded end becomes much easier. Welding pipe nipples are normally used in piping systems that require welding to connect components.\
}