{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green128\blue214;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Globe valves are normally installed with the incoming fluid pressure applied to the   bottom of the valve disk, that is, to the side of the disk that closes against the seat.   The top of the disk is the side that does not close against the seat and, in most globe   valves, is the side in contact with the valve stem. When fluid pressure is applied to   the bottom of the disk, the pressure helps the operator open the valve, and the pressure   on the valve packing is relieved when the valve is closed. \
The only time a globe valve is installed with fluid pressure applied to the top of the   disk is when the valve is used as a throttle valve controlling steam flow to an engine.   Installed in this manner, if the disk were to become detached from the stem, the disk   would be carried toward the seat by the steam flow. Even if the disk does not close   tightly against the seat, it would choke off steam flow to the engine and cause it to   slow down. Globe throttle valves installed in this manner are considered fail safe. If   the valve was installed with the steam pressure on the bottom of the disk, and the disk   became detached from the stem, the disk would be carried away from the seat by the steam   flow and cause the engine speed to rise uncontrollably. The steam would also carry the   disk toward the engine where it could enter and cause damage. \
Globe valves cause a relatively large pressure drop in the fluid as it flows through   the valve. Pressure drops are caused by the friction created when the fluid changes   direction of flow through the valve. The straight globe valve, with the pipe connections   180 degrees opposite each other, has the greatest pressure drop through it due to three   to five changes in direction of fluid flow. The right angle valve has a 90 degree angle   between the inlet and outlet pipe connections and fluid flow only changes direction one   or two times, creating less pressure drop than the straight type. Globe valves are also   constructed with 45 or 60 degree angles between the stem and the outlet side of the   valve. This valve design also creates less change in direction of fluid flow, reducing   pressure drop through the valve. \
A globe valve is fully open when the disk is raised \'bc of the diameter, 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 d
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 , of   the seat opening. For full flow to take place through the globe valve, the area the   fluid flows in through and the area the fluid flows out through must be equal. The inlet   area is the hole in the seat, and is equal to the area of a circle or . The fluid flows   out through the space between the top of the seat and the bottom of the disk which is   the side of a cylindrical shape. The area of the side of a cylinder is equal to the   circumference of the circle on the end of the cylinder times the height, 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 h
\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  of   the cylinder . \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}