{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Boiler water must be treated chemically to avoid problems such as Scale, Corrosion, Sludge Formation, and Foaming. Scale is caused by impurities such as calcium and magnesium precipitating out of the water, and by suspended solids settling out and adhering to the tube surfaces. Scale deposits on the tubes act as thermal insulation which reduces the heat transfer across the tubes and increases the tube temperatures. Corrosion due to dissolved oxygen attacks the iron of the tubes and leads to its deterioration. Untreated sludge will bake onto the heat transfer surfaces and cause overheating, and suspended solids will cause a foam to form in the steam drum leading to carryover. \
The boiler water must be tested and boiler chemicals added each day to maintain correct pH levels to limit corrosion, and for correct phosphate levels, which help to precipitate out calcium and magnesium. Periodic surface blowdowns are conducted on a steaming boiler to remove suspended solids, lower the conductivity, and remove dissolved substances contained in the water. Sludge accumulations in the mud drum and headers are removed by conducting bottom blows. A boiler can only receive a bottom blow when it is secured, since blowing a steaming boiler could interrupt the natural circulation flow and cause tube overheating. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}