{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red97\green16\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Electrical systems may be described as either 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\b\fs32 DC
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  (direct current) or 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\b\fs32 AC
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  (alternating current) depending on the voltage supply.  \
In DC systems, the power supply maintains a constant polarity, <ie/> one terminal is always positive, and the other is always negative, and the supply voltage is usually fairly steady.  Batteries and solar cells are examples of DC voltage sources.  In DC circuits, current always flows around the circuit in exactly one direction, from the positive to the negative terminal. <xref ref="
\f3 \cf3 fig_battery
\f1 \cf0 "/> is a simple example of a DC system. The current flows from the positive terminal of the battery, through the bulb, the switch, and then returns to the negative terminal of the battery.  \
On the other hand, in AC systems the polarity of the voltage switches periodically in a repeating pattern.  This causes the current in the circuit to change periodically as well.  In this section we discuss some important properties of period waves
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}