{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green52\blue52;\red239\green239\blue239;\red91\green154\blue221;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c26667\c26667\c26667;\cssrgb\c94902\c94902\c94902;\cssrgb\c42353\c67451\c89412;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cpcworldwide.com/Resources-Support/Technical-Toolbox/Understanding-NPT-Pipe-Thread-Types"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs41\fsmilli20800 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://www.cpcworldwide.com/Resources-Support/Technical-Toolbox/Understanding-NPT-Pipe-Thread-Types}}
\f0\fs41\fsmilli20800 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
Pipe thread sizes are based on an inside diameter (ID) or flow size. For example, \'931/2\'9614 NPT\'94 identifies a pipe thread with a nominal inside diameter of 1/2 inch and 14 threads to the inch, made according to the NPT standard. If \'93LH\'94 is added, the pipe has a left hand thread. The most commonglobal pipe thread forms are:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri400\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPT:
\f0\b0  American Standard Pipe Taper Thread\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\ri400\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPSC:
\f0\b0  American Standard Straight Coupling Pipe Thread\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPTR:
\f0\b0  American Standard Taper Railing Pipe Thread\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPSM:
\f0\b0  American Standard Straight Mechanical Pipe Thread\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPSL:
\f0\b0  American Standard Straight Locknut Pipe Thread\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
NPTF:
\f0\b0  American Standard Pipe Thread Tapered (Dryseal)\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
BSPP:
\f0\b0  British Standard Pipe Thread Parallel\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
BSPT:
\f0\b0  British Standard Pipe Thread Tapered\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Plastic injection molded thread forms are manufactured to ANSI B2.1 and SAE J476 standards.\cb1 \
\cb3 The word \'93tapered\'94 in several of the above names points to the big difference between many pipe threads and those on bolts and screws. Many pipe threads must make not only a mechanical joint but also a leakproof hydraulic seal. This is accomplished by the tapered thread form of the male matching the thread form of the female tapered thread and the use of pipe sealant to fill any voids between the two threads which could cause a spiral leak. The bottoms of the threads aren\'92t on a cylinder, but a cone; they taper. The taper is 1\uc0\u8260 16 inch per inch of length, which is the same as 3/4 inch in a foot.\cb1 \
\cb3 Because of the taper, a pipe thread can only screw into a fitting a certain distance before\'a0it jams. The standard specifies this distance as the length of hand tight engagement, the distance the pipe thread can be screwed in by hand. It also specifies another distance \'96 the effective thread, this is the length of the thread which makes the seal on a conventional machined pipe thread. For workers, instead of these distances, it is more convenient to know how many turns to make by hand and how many with a wrench. A simple rule of thumb for installing tapered pipe threads, both metal and plastic, is finger tight plus one to two turns with a wrench. Torque installation values can be determined per application, but due to the variations involved in pipe joints such as disimiliar materials of male and female threads, type of sealants used, and internal\'a0variations in product wall thickness, a standard torque specification cannot be generically applied.}