{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 TimesLTStd-Roman;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green20\blue19;\red251\green0\blue23;\red97\green16\blue51;
\red2\green33\blue72;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cscmyk\c0\c0\c0\c100000;\csgenericrgb\c98600\c0\c9100;\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;
\cssrgb\c0\c18039\c35294;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Sewage Treatment Unit (HLCP 40)\
Manufacturer: Hamann\
Type: Dissolved Air Flotation (DAF)\
Model: HL-CONT Plus 40\
No. sets: 2\
Capacity: 96,000 liters/day\
Sludge production: 2,975 liters/day\
Biological loading rate: 46.5kg/d BOD\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\fs22 \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Marine Sanitation Devices (MSD) also known as SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANTS (STP)\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::0>
\fs20 \
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf3 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3 Grey Water (GW) and Black Water (BW) are collected in the ship\'92s Holding Tank.\
When the filling level reaches a predefined level, the sewage treatment starts auto-\
matically.\
The Feeding P/P starts to operate and is protected from running dry by process water.\
The pump conveys the raw sewage from the ship\'92s Holding Tank via the Macerator to\
the Saturator. The Macerator in the suction line reduces the solids in the raw sewage\
to 1 mm pieces.\
The sewage is enriched with air under a pressure of 5 bar. The Press. Sensor for Satu-\
rator measures this pressure in the Saturator. The defined pressure in the Saturator is\
controlled by the Press. Release Valve.\
Treatment process\
The sewage enriched with air is discharged from the Saturator through the Press. Re-\
lease Valve and loses the pressure. The excess air forms bubbles. A flocculant is add-\
ed.\
Flocculant and air bubbles connect to the suspended particles of the sewage and\
form larger flakes in the Flotation TK. This reduces the total density: Flakes, particles and\
other impurities are lifted out through buoyancy. This creates a sludge foam on the sur-\
face of the Flotation TK. and leaves the clear phase in the lower part of the Flotation TK.\
The Clear Phase P/P operates throughout a predefined period to maintain the oper-\
ation level in the Flotation TK. Then, the Clear Phase P/P stops. This allows fluid and\
sludge foam to build up in the Flotation TK. The sludge foam spills over the brim of the\
Flotation TK. into the Sludge Compartment.\
SN 11468+11469 
\f0 \uc0\u61549 
\f3  HL-CONT Plus 40 23\
NSMV-593-V801 / REV.- / 023System description\
When the sludge foam in the Sludge Compartment reaches the Level Sensor Sludge\
Flotation Tk., the Sludge P/P starts to operate. This pump conveys the sludge from the\
Sludge Compartment to the ship\'92s Sludge Tank. The Cleaning Injector/Nozzle Flotation\
Tk. in the upper area cleans the Sludge Compartment.\
At the same time, the Clear Phase P/P starts to operate again to maintain the opera-\
tion level. The cycle in the Flotation TK. begins again. The Level Sensor Flotation Tk. pre-\
vents the Clear Phase P/P from running dry.\
The particles collected in the sump of the Flotation TK. can be drained manually via\
opening the 3-way Valve Sludge.\
UV Disinfection\
The Clear Phase P/P conveys the clear phase from the lower part of the Flotation TK.\
through the UV-Disinfection Plant 1. The clear phase passes through the UV lamps. The\
emitted UV light degrades the DNA of bacteria and microorganisms which renders\
the bacteria and microorganisms incapable of reproducing and infecting.\
The treated effluent is safe to discharge overboard.\
Inactivity / Switch off\
When the filling level of the ship\'91s Holding Tank falls below a defined stop level, the\
Sewage Treatment Plant enters the standby mode:\
\'96 The Macerator and the Feeding P/P stop.\
\'96 The Clear Phase P/P continues to operate until the Flotation TK. has been\
drained to its stop level.\
\'96 Then, the pressure of the Saturator is released. The liquid filling level of the Satu-\
rator is drained into the Flotation TK..\
\'96 All pumps stop operating and the Sewage Treatment Plant is in the standby\
mode.\
The plant remains in the standby mode until the filling level of the Holding Tank reach-\
es the start level.\
When the Sewage Treatment Plant is shut down via the touch panel, the plant carries\
out the steps to enter the standby mode.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf4 \CocoaLigature0 <!$Scr_Ps::1>
\f3\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf5 \CocoaLigature1 The already largely purified sewage is finally exposed to UV radiation to degrade the DNA of bacteria and microorganisms, rendering them incapable of\
reproducing and infecting. After this finishing step, the treated sewage from the HAMANN HL-CONT Plus sewage treatment plant is safe to be\
discharged overboard (if permitted).}