{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 A diesel engine is a type of internal combustion engine that converts the chemical energy of fuel into work by compressing air to a high pressure and temperature, then injecting fuel into the compressed air. The heat from the compressed air ignites the fuel, causing a controlled explosion that drives a piston down. The downward motion is mechanically converted to rotary motion by a connecting rod and crankshaft.\
Diesel engines provide a rugged, efficient, versatile, self-contained source of power.
\f0\fs24 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 These engines come in sizes ranging from a few horsepower to over 100,000. Within the limits of its range of horsepower, the diesel engine is one of the most efficient source of power available. \
Diesels are widely used in a wide variety of commercial and industrial applications including electrical generation. In the field of transportation, they power locomotives, construction equipment, vehicles, and all varieties of oceangoing vessels. \
Diesel engines can operate on a wide variety of liquid fuel oils. Most small and medium engines operate on petroleum 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\b\fs32 diesel fuel
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs32 , which is a distilled from crude oil, while large slow speed marine engines operate on 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\b\fs32 Heavy Fuel Oil
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs32  (HFO). There is a growing trend for engines to run on gaseous fuels such as natural gas or bio-gas.  Engines which can operate on a combination of liquid and gaseous fuels are called 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::2>
\f2\b\fs32 dual-fuel
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::2>
\f1\fs32 .\

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}