{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 The Engineering Officer of the Watch is responsible for maintaining several logbooks. Every ship will have an  <pubtitle>Engineroom Logbook</pubtitle>, an <pubtitle>Oil Record Book</pubtitle> (ORB), and if not automatically logged, a <pubtitle>Bell Book</pubtitle>.  In addition, the <em>TS Patriot State</em> also maintains a <pubtitle>Maintenance Log</pubtitle>.\
The Engineering Log, ORB, and Bell Book are vital, legal documents and should be handled accordingly.  They serve to document the operations carried out aboard ship, and should answer the questions: who? what? where? when? and why? Logbooks will be used by the Coast Guard in any accident, casualty, or spill investigation.  A properly filled out logbook may be able to exonerate you, while a fraudulent one might convict you.\
When filling out logbooks, entries are to be printed legibly, using a black pen, and no erasures are permitted.  If a mistake is made, a single line should be drawn through the error and the correction entered and initialed. Entries must be maintained contemporaneously with the events they describe.  Wash your hands before filling out the logbook, and keep the logbook clean.  Sign the logbook at the end of the watch.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}