{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 STIXTwoMath-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 The mass of an object can be determined without the use of a balance by using a formula that has mass as a variable. In physics, a common method for how to find mass is associated with Sir Isaac Newton's second law of motion. This law describes an object's inertia and states that net force (F), measured in Newtons (N) equals mass (m) multiplied by acceleration (a), i.e., F=ma. \
The equation variables can be algebraically rearranged to solve for mass so that m=F/a. Thus, if the amount of force applied to an object and its rate of acceleration is known, the mass of the object can be calculated by dividing the force by the acceleration. \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u55349 \u56377 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 \u55349 \u56398 
\f1  \

\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56377 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56398 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 
\f1  \
Mass can also be calculated when the weight of an object is known. \
W=mg \
How to Find Mass \
There are several options available to solve for mass. Which mass equation to use will depend on the situation and the available information. Consider the following examples using the physics mass equations. \
Example 1: Using Newton's Second Law of Motion (F=ma or m=F/a) to calculate mass. \
A force of 150 N is applied to an object which then accelerates at 3 m/s/s. What is the mass of the object? \
The example problem provides information about force and acceleration which means Newton's Second Law of Motion formula can be used (F=ma). \
The formula must be rearranged algebraically to solve for mass (m). This is done by dividing both sides of the equation by acceleration (a): \

\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56377 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 \u55349 \u56398 
\f1  \

\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56377 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56398 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 \u55349 \u56398 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56398 
\f1  \

\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56377 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56398 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 
\f1  \
Now the force (F) and acceleration (a) variables can be replaced by the values from the example problem: \
150
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56385 
\f1 /3
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56416 
\f1 /
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56416 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 
\f1  \
Finally, the value for force is divided by the value for acceleration to solve for mass: \
50
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56408 \u55349 \u56404 
\f1 =
\f2 \uc0\u55349 \u56410 
\f1  \
The object has a calculated mass of 50 kg. \
When using Newton's Second Law to solve for mass, the equation shows mass to be a proportion of the force applied to an object to its acceleration. In this relationship, if the same force is applied to an object with a mass of 100 kg and to an object with a mass of 25 kg, the object with a mass of 25 kg will have a greater acceleration. This is because the object with a greater mass would require a greater applied force to achieve an acceleration equal to an object with a smaller mass. \
Example 2: Using weight and gravitational acceleration (W=mg or m=W/g) to calculate mass, \
The weight and gravitational acceleration equation is very similar to Newton's Second Law equation. Weight is a force and replaces the F variable from Newton's equation. Gravitational acceleration in the weight equation replaces the acceleration variable from Newton's Law and is a constant. On Earth, it is 9.8 m/s/s. Other planets and the moon have different values for gravitational acceleration. Thus, the more mass an object has, the greater the force of weight it will experience. \
What is mass equal to? \
Mass is equal to the following: \
Mass is equal to the density multiplied by volume. Mass is equal to energy divided by the speed of light squared. Mass is equal to weight divided by the acceleration of gravity. Mass is also equal to net force divided acceleration. \
What is the formula for mass and weight? \
The formula for weight states that weight is equal to mass multiplied by the acceleration of gravity (i.e., W=mg). \
The formula for mass can therefore be m=W/g. However, mass is also equal to the net force needed to accelerate an object, divided by its acceleration (i.e., M = F/A). \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}