{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Lube oil system casualties, including loss of lube oil pressure, high bearing temperatures, and lube oil system leaks are very serious and can result in extensive damage to the main engine bearings and gears.  This damage will immobilize the ship and will be very expensive to repair. \
\
The lube oil system is designed with safety features and redundancy to enable the operator to secure the main engine and avoid or minimize this damage. Normally the *Kennedy* is operated with an electrically driven main lube oil pump backed up by a turbine driven stand-by pump, or vice-versa.  The stand-by pump is arranged to automatically start on the loss of pressure at the main pump discharge.   Both pumps discharge to the lube oil gravity tank, which maintains a constant oil pressure on the bearings and has enough capacity to supply the system with oil for three minutes after the failure of both pumps.  At the same time, the main engine governor responds to low oil pressure by tripping the low pressure relay on the  throttles which closes the ahead throttle and stops the engine. \
\
The first indication of a low lube oil pressure casualty will be the sounding of the low lube oil pressure alarm, triggered by a loss of the main lube oil pump's discharge pressure.  At this point the stand-by pump should automatically start and maintain normal bearing pressures.  \
\
During a lube oil casualty, the lube oil gravity tank *bull's eye* is an important indication of the system's "health."  As long as either lube oil pump is working, oil will overflow from the gravity tank and be visible in the bull's eye, and the bearings will be supplied with adequate lubrication.  If no oil flow is visible there, it means that neither pump is supplying oil, in which case immediate action must be taken.  Oil pressure gages at the lube oil header, bearing temperatures, and the lube oil bubblers at each bearing should be watched carefully during a casualty to help gage the extent of the damage.\
\
Some possible causes of lube oil failure include:\
\
-	Lube oil pump failure due to electrical or mechanical causes.\
-	A leak in in the lube oil suction line, or in the suction strainer cover, causing the pump to lose suction.  Never  change over suction strainers while the lube oil system is operating.  Note: the *Kennedy* does not have a LO suction strainer.\
-	A restriction in either the suction or discharge strainer.\
-	Relief valve failure, preventing the pump from developing sufficient pressure.\
-	A low or empty lube oil sump, which could be due to:\
	-	a leak in the lube oil cooler.\
	-	incorrect line up of the lube oil purifier causing the sump to be pumped out or,\
	-	a leak on the discharge side of the lube oil pump.\
	
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}