{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Metric System: \
Centimeters per second (cm/s): Occasionally used for smaller-scale measurements, particularly in scientific contexts. \
Meters per second (m/s): This is the standard SI unit for speed. It indicates the number of meters traveled in one second. \
Kilometers per hour (km/h): This unit is often used for measuring the speed of vehicles and other modes of transportation. It indicates the number of kilometers traveled in one hour. \
US Customary System \
Miles per hour (mph): Commonly used in the United States and the United Kingdom for measuring the speed of vehicles. It indicates the number of miles traveled in one hour. \
Feet per second (ft/s): Sometimes used in various engineering contexts, especially in the United States. \
Nautical Units: \
Knots (kn or kt): Used in maritime and aviation contexts, a knot is equal to one nautical mile per hour (1 nautical mile = 1.852 kilometers). \
Knot: A knot is a unit of speed used primarily in navigation and marine contexts. One knot represents one nautical mile per hour (nautical mile is approximately 1.15 statute miles). Rotational Speed: \
Revolutions per minute (RPM): Used to measure the number of complete rotations or cycles per minute. \
Radians per second (rad/s): Used in engineering to measure angular speed
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}