{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red97\green16\blue51;\red65\green107\blue34;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;\cssrgb\c31800\c48600\c17600;
}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 The following steps describe the procedure for safely starting a centrifugal pump. \
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 <list> \cf3 <title>Centrifugal Pump Starting Procedure</title>\cf2 <ol>
\f0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf4 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  Rotate the pump by hand to insure it is free to turn. \
 If the pump has a packed shaft and is to operate with a high vacuum on the suction side, open the seal water line to the stuffing box (if fitted with a valve), and the suction vent line to remove vapors from the suction casing. On a high speed boiler feed pump, open the recirculating line. 
\f0 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf0 \

\f2 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf4  Open the suction valve and close the discharge valve. \
 Prime or flood the pump casing with liquid. \
 Start the pump prime mover. \
 As the pump comes up to running speed, briefly open the casing vent valve (if installed) to expel any air from the casing. \
 When the pump is up to its normal running speed, open the discharge valve. \
 Check the suction and discharge pressure gages to insure the pump is operating normally and make sure a packed pump shaft has a small amount of liquid leakage. \
 After the pump has run for a little while, check the casing, stuffing box area (on a packed pump), and the bearing housings for excessive temperatures. \
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 </ol></list>
\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices <!$Scr_Ps::1>}