{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
HDEC2000 unit provides ten protective functions listed below. \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Generator over voltage\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Generator under voltage\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Generator over current 
\f1\fs24 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Exciter over current\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Loss of filed (under excitation)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Loss of sensing\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Loss of power\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Diode Fault Monitor for open and short rotating diode status (DFM) Excitation output short circuit protection (hardware support)\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mode mismatch 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf2 The protective functions of HDEC 2000 unit are designed to provide a high degree of reliability and accuracy, but few protective functions are not successful for critical primary protective function (e.g. generator over current) due to measuring range (or saturation problem) of measuring hardware. The reason is described below. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 Internal measuring devices (ex: current sensor) are designed for optimum operation of generator voltage (or excitation current, reactive power ...) regulation because the core function of HDEC2000 unit is regulation. By this reason, we recommend that few protective functions corresponding to this kind are used for secondary protection in conjunction with a primary protective system. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 Normally, a fault event is activated when the generator operating condition exceeds the setting level of each protective function and the operating condition is not returned to normal operating condition within the delay (configured or calculated) time. Each fault event can be indicated on the front panel display and remotely through Com0 or Com2 communication ports. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26\fsmilli13333 When any fault event is activated, internal software fault flag, front panel fault message and output relay (if fault event is assigned for that relay) are latched until the fault event is inactivated and reset command is activated. Additionally, all fault events can be assigned for any output relays (#1 relay to #3 relay). 
\f1\fs24 \
}