{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green124\blue191;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c25098\c48627\c74902;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Pipe adapters are fittings that have to adapt to changes and are therefore used for joining different types of pipes such as a pipe to a hose. Adapters are used to extend or terminate the piping. They are also used to connect dissimilar pipes.\
There are male to female adapters, parallel to taper thread adapters, pipe to hose adapters etc. Pipe adapters have a male or female thread on one side and an opposite gender thread on the other side.\
Pipe adapters are fittings that have to adapt to changes and are therefore used for joining different types of pipes such as a pipe to a hose. Adapters are used to extend or terminate the piping. They are also used to connect dissimilar pipes.\
There are male to female adapters, parallel to taper thread adapters, and pipe to hose adapters etc. Pipe adapters have a male or female thread on one side and an opposite gender thread on the other side.\
* Gauge Adapter\
A gauge adapter is used for fitting pressure gauges and instrumentation fittings. They are used for the fitting of pressure measuring instrument such as pressure gauges, gauge cocks, shut off valves etc. The different types of gauge adapters are male \'96 female adapters, female \'96 female adapters, male \'96 male adapters, self sealing nipples, LH-RH unions, union nut with nipple, compression fitting with ferrule, swivel adapters etc.\
* Reducing Adapter\
A reducing adapter is used for joining a pipe to a hose or tube as well as to help in flow control.\
In doing so it controls the pressure acting on the hose at the end. It is used in applications where a copper tube is joined to the main steam pipe for trace heating. These are the main types of pipe fittings. However, there are many more types. In the next article we shall continue discussing about various pipe fittings.\
 * Hose Adapter\
A hose adapter is used where a hose is connected to a pipe. It may be the termination of the piping like a garden hose at the end or a high rating hydraulic hose used to give flexibility and movability to the system
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}