{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Over the years, many marine engineers have suffered permanent hearing loss due to hours of exposure to the high noise levels in the engine room. You can prevent the loss of your own hearing by using proper hearing protection such as earplugs and earmuffs religiously whenever you are exposed to loud noises. \
Your ear is a delicate instrument which contains thousands of fine hair cells called cilia to detect sounds. Prolonged exposure to loud noises can injure or break these cells or even tear off groups of these cells. Since the hair cells don\'92t ever repair themselves, when enough of them are damaged, a hearing loss results. \
Short, intense, sounds such as an explosion can cause immediate and permanent hearing loss, but most hearing loss occurs gradually due to prolonged exposure to high noise levels. Most of the time this loss is so gradual that you are not even aware that it is occurring. Hearing loss is progressive and will continue to get worse as you continue to expose yourself to a noisy environment, but if you can avoid further exposure, the hearing loss won\'92t get any worse. \
Permanent hearing loss is not the only hazard associated with noisy environments. Tinnitus is a condition where a ringing or roaring sound is heard continuously in one or both ears. Tinnitus occurs when the hair cells are damaged in such a way that they produce sound signals to the brain even in the absence of actual stimulation. This noise is sometimes described as like having a cricket permanently stuck in your ear, and is very annoying. \
Sound intensity is measured in units of 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\b\fs32 decibels
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  (dB). The decibel scale is a logarithmic scale in which 0 dB indicates the quietest sound that can be heard by a normal person. A quiet library is about 20 dB. A normal conversation occurs at a sound level of about 60 dB. A lawnmower produces about 85 dB, and at this level you should be wearing hearing protection. Sandblasting or a rock concert has a sound intensity of about 115 dB. At this level hearing damage can occur after only about 15 minutes of unprotected exposure. \
According to OSHA regulations, when the 8 hour average noise exposure is above 85 dB, employers are required to institute a noise monitoring program, provide adequate hearing protectors, and ensure employees wear them. Continual, unprotected exposure to noises louder than 85 decibels for 8 hours or more can be dangerous, and may result in hearing loss. \
You can easily tell if you should be wearing hearing protection. If you find yourself in a situation where it is too noisy to carry on a conversation at arms length, or if you notice that your ears ring or feel plugged for a time after leaving a noisy environment, you can be sure that you should have been wearing your hearing protection. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}