{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red64\green124\blue191;\red66\green66\blue66;\red23\green195\blue50;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c25098\c48627\c74902;\cssrgb\c32941\c32941\c32941;\csgenericrgb\c9002\c76637\c19535;
}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \CocoaLigature0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 However, it is to note that there is a difference and it is based primarily on the rules of nomenclature of the pipes and the tubes.\
In the following points we endeavor to clarify the issue:\
* Pipe is rigid and resistant to bending whereas some tubes such as copper tubes and brass tubes can be flexible. However, in structural projects tubes are rigid.\
* Pipes are classified by schedule and nominal diameter. For example, a 250mm nominal diameter and schedule 80 pipe.\
* Tubes are classified by outside diameter and thickness. For example, 10mm copper tube 2 mm thickness.\
* In pipes, all the fittings can be matched by nominal size and schedule. For example a schedule 40 one inch pipe will have fittings specified by the same name. These pipe fittings would not fit a 1\'94 tube.\
* Pipe is always round or cylindrical. Tubes may be square, rectangular and cylindrical.\
* Pipes generally start from 1\uc0\u8260 2 inch to very large sizes. However, tubes are generally of smaller diameter only. We use a 10 inch pipe but not 10 inch tube.\
* Tubes are used in applications where the outside diameter must be precise, like in cooler tubes, heat exchanger tubes, boiler tubes etc.\
* Pipes are generally used to carry fluids and must contain them. They also have pressure rating and hence are scheduled.\
* In tubes the thickness increases in standard steps like 1 mm thick, 2 mm thick etc. In pipes however the thickness depends on the schedule of the pipe and there is no fixed step.\
* Pipe joining is more time consuming . For e.g. welding, threading, flanges with bolts etc. The tubes joining are faster using flaring, brazing, couplings etc.\
* Tube dimensions are actual dimensions. Whereas the pipe dimensions are only nominal. That means that a 1\'94 tube will have actually OD as 1\'94. The pipes on the other hand are named nominally, which means only for name. The 1\'94 schedule 40 Nominal size pipe has an ID of 1.049\'94, OD of 1.32\'94 and a wall thickness of 0.133\'94.\
* Tube fittings are compression fittings such as ferrule and union nut, flared fittings, biting fittings, mechanical grip type fittings. The pipe fittings on the other hand are pipe to pipe butt welding, threaded pipe fitting connectors, flange to flange bolted fittings etc.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa150\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
<!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2\b\fs38 MEASUREMENT AND ORDERING\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs28 \cf3 Stainless tubing is generally used for applications where structural support is required. This can include roll cages in cars, making monkey bars for your playground, or fabricating the support structure of a rig for hoisting. These applications require precise dimensions for the outer diameter (OD) of the tubing so that each part of the fabricated structure fits correctly. The wall thickness (WT) depends on the strength of the structure required so it doesn't bend or break when forces are exerted upon it.\
On the other hand, piping is required to carry fluids throughout a process, such as those in chemical and petroleum processing plants. Here the internal diameter (ID) is more important as it specifies the fluid carrying capacity of the vessel and the flow rate, crucial to pipe sizing calculations for projects. The OD for pipes comes in standard sizes called the nominal pipe size (NPS). Additionally, the wall thickness is specified by the schedule of the pipe, important for determining the pressure rating of the pipe. The outer diameter and wall thickness enable you to calculate the internal diameter and order appropriately sized pipes with a certain strength. 
\f3 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\
Pipes and tubes are both cylindrical hollow structures used for the transportation of fluids, gases, or solids, but they have distinct differences in terms of their design, manufacturing, and applications. Here are the key differences between pipes and tubes:\
\
1. **Shape and Dimensions:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes are generally round and have standardized outer diameters. They are sized based on the Nominal Pipe Size (NPS) or Nominal Diameter (DN), which corresponds to the approximate inside diameter (ID) of the pipe.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes can have various shapes, including round, square, rectangular, or oval. They are typically sized based on their outside diameter (OD) and wall thickness.\
\
2. **Manufacturing Process:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes are manufactured using two methods: seamless and welded. Seamless pipes are produced without a seam, while welded pipes are made by welding together flat sheets of metal.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes are commonly manufactured using one of three processes: seamless, welded, or drawn-over-mandrel (DOM). Seamless tubes are produced without a seam, welded tubes are made by welding together strips of metal, and DOM tubes are drawn through a die to achieve precise dimensions.\
\
3. **Tolerances and Precision:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes have more lenient tolerances, especially for wall thickness. They may have variations in wall thickness along their length.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes are manufactured with tighter tolerances, resulting in more precise dimensions and wall thickness consistency.\
\
4. **Applications:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes are typically used for conveying fluids and gases in various industrial, commercial, and residential applications, including plumbing, oil and gas pipelines, and water distribution systems.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes are used in a wider range of applications beyond fluid transport. They are often chosen for structural applications, such as in automotive frames, aircraft structures, and bicycle frames, as well as in heat exchangers and instrumentation.\
\
5. **Strength and Rigidity:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes are generally designed to handle higher internal pressures and external loads due to their thicker walls and standardized sizes. They are rigid and well-suited for applications requiring structural integrity.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes may have thinner walls, making them lighter but less capable of handling high internal pressures. They are often chosen for applications where weight is a consideration.\
\
6. **Cost:**\
   - **Pipe:** Pipes are often more cost-effective for fluid transport applications because of their standardized sizes and manufacturing processes.\
   - **Tube:** Tubes can be more expensive due to their tighter tolerances and versatility.\
\
In summary, while both pipes and tubes are used for transporting materials, pipes are typically used for fluid conveyance with standardized sizes and manufacturing processes, while tubes are more versatile in shape, used in structural applications, and manufactured with greater precision. The choice between pipes and tubes depends on the specific requirements of the application.\
}