{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 The DC heater normally operates at near steady state, with water inflows and outflows in balance, and the level remaining relatively constant at the midpoint of the gage glass. If this balance is upset, something is wrong and the situation must be investigated and corrected.\
\
If the problem is caught early, it is usually easy to correct as soon as the root cause is discovered.  However, if the situation is left to fester, it can lead to serious problems.  Low deaerator levels affect the feed pump suction, and can lead to low water in the boiler and loss of the plant.  Excessively high levels should be avoided to maintain proper deaeration and prevent tank rupture.\
\
Water enters the DC heater primarily from the main condensate line, but also from the high pressure drain system. Steam enters from the auxiliary exhaust system to heat and deaerate the feed, and then condenses and adds to the tank contents. Feedwater is removed from the tank by the feed pump to supply the boiler.  In a perfectly closed system, these flows would be equal, and the level would remain steady.  In a real ship, however, leaks in the steam systems must be replenished by periodic addition of *make-up feed (MUF)*. Aboard the *Kennedy*, the taking on make-up feed is the responsibility of the Cadet Engineer of the Watch.  Most ships use an automated regulating valve to do the same job. \
\
The most common cause of incorrect DC heater level is inattention to duty by the watchstander -- failing to take on make-up when needed, or leaving the make-up valve open too long.  On automated ships, failure of the make-up feed regulator can cause similar problems. Inattention can also permit the distilled tank, which is the source of the make-up feed, to go dry. Water can also be lost into an idle condenser, if a condensate pump recirculation valve is left open.\
\
The DC heater is equipped with an automated dump valve, which opens to drain excess feed to the reserve feed tanks.  If this valve fails or is bypassed, the DC heater level will fall precipitously. \
\
Failure of a main or auxiliary condensate pump will cause an immediate reduction in the inflow, leading to low level in the DC heater and a high level in the corresponding condenser. Failure of the main feed pump will cause the opposite problem -- high level in the DC heater and a low level in the boiler.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}