{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue23;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c98600\c0\c9100;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 A pump circulates deionized water. Optionally, a second pump can be implemented for redundancy and changeover. Water flow monitoring is implemented in order to check that the minimum flow required to cool the power parts is maintained. An alarm / fault signal is sent to the controller in case of insufficient flow. Water conductivity measurement enables to control the water deionization system valve with a hysteresis type command: above a high conductivity value, the valve is opened so that water flows through a DI resin cartridge. Water conductivity decreases until the low level value is reached, at which the valve is closed. If the water conductivity is higher than a maximum value a fault status is sent to the controller upon which the drive will be tripped. \
An expansion tank is used to set static pressure of water circuit, and mitigate pressure variations due to water expansion due to temperature. A raw water / deionized water heat exchanger is used for transferring heat from inverter heat sinks to raw water. Deionized water outlet temperature of cooling unit is monitored, with an alarm / fault managed by the controller. Refer to section 6 of MV7000 Unified user manual and the manual provided by the supplier for details about cooling unit. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}