{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 During the intake stroke fresh air for combustion is admitted into the cylinder.  This event actually begins slightly before the end of the previous cycle.\
As the piston moves upward and slightly before top dead center (BTDC), the intake cam opens the intake valve. The intake stroke begins while the exhaust valve is still open.  The flow of the exhaust gases will have created a low pressure condition within the cylinder and will help pull in the fresh air charge. The piston continues its upward travel through top dead center (TDC) while fresh air enters and exhaust gases leave.  \
Shortly after top dead center (ATDC), the camshaft rotates so that the exhaust cam starts allow the exhaust valve to close.  The necessary force is supplied by a 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\b\fs32 valve spring
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32 , which was compressed when the valve was opened. The time frame during which both the intake and exhaust valves are open is called valve overlap and is necessary to allow the fresh air to help 
\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\b\fs32 scavenge
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\fs32  (remove) the spent exhaust gases and cool the cylinder. In most engines, 30 to 50 times cylinder volume is scavenged during overlap. This cool air also provides cools the engine parts. As the piston passes TDC and begins to travel down the cylinder bore, the movement of the piston creates a suction and continues to draw fresh air into the cylinder. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}