{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 The following is an example of a complete round that will allow you to check all of the machinery in an efficient manner. It isn't too practical to spend a lot of time prior to the watch, so keep your round fast and efficient.  Some parts of the machinery spaces may have to be checked in detail during the watch by the watch oiler, who is the eyes and ears of engineer, or yourself if you can leave the operating platform.  \
\
1.	Start your round in the steering gear room. \
	*	Check oil levels in the four sumps. Look for hydraulic oil leaks. \
	*	Determine which unit is running, port or starboard. \
1.	Enter lower six hold. \
	*	Check the aft Hamworthy MSD. Check the level in the chlorinator tank, look for leaks, and insure that the air pump is running. \
	*	Check the bilge level.\
1.	Enter the engine room at the upper tween deck. \
	*	Upon entering, check the first stage heater outlet temperature. \
	*	Check the gage glasses on steam drums. \
	*	Check the operation of the gland exhaust fan. \
1.	Go up the ladder. \
	*	Check the forced draft fans. \
	*	Check the DC heater level, temperature and steam supply pressure. \
1.	Go down starboard side ladder to the generator flat. \
	*	Note which turbogenerator is on. \
	*	Check the sump oil level, bearing oil pressure [12 psi], pump oil press [80 psi], oil bubblers, air box temperature, lube oil cooler outlet oil temperature, bearing outlet temperature [115--125 \'b0F], gland seal steam, condenser vacuum [28" Hg]. \
1.	Go aft and to port around the reduction gear. \
	*	Check the upper level HP and LP turbine oil bubblers, check the bearing temperatures on the remote panel [160 \'b0F max], verify flow in the lube oil bull's eye. \
	*	Check the two air receiver pressures: ship's service [100 psi], control air [80 psi]. Check the sump oil levels and blow-down the receivers. \
	*	Check the contaminated evaporator. Note steam pressure, source of steam [extraction or 150 psi auxiliary steam]. \
	*	Check the Aqua-Chem evaporators. Note which units are running. Check the chemical feed tank level, vacuum, feed heater temperature [165 \'b0F], salinity panel, and note which tanks are filling. \
1.	Go forward and check the refrigeration equipment. \
	*	Note which unit is running, and the oil levels in sump bull's eyes, receiver levels, pressures and temperatures. \
1.	Go aft and down to the lower level, port side. \
	*	Check the port settling tank. Note which suction, if any, is open. Note the tank temperature  [110 \'b0F]. \
	*	Check the CDT tank for oil in the after porthole. \
	*	Check the evaporator brine and feed pumps. \
	*	Check the oily water separator when running. The oil content when discharging overboard must be 15 ppm or less. \
	*	Check the main lube oil pumps. Check the discharge pressure. Note the which pump is running and insure that the other ready for stand-by use. \
	*	Check the lube oil purifier, look in the two observation ports. Check the  inlet temperature [170 \'b0F], feed pressure [4 psi]. \
	*	Check the MSD lift station and pumps. \
	*	Check the lower oil bubblers. \
	*	Check the bilges.\
1.	Go aft over the shaft. \
	*	Check the oil flow in the main thrust bearing. \
	*	Check the main lube oil sump level. \
1.	Go down shaft alley. \
	*	Check all oil levels in line shaft bearings.  Feel the bearing casings. \
	*	Check the bilges. \
	*	Check the after stern tube shaft seal and one gallon head tank. \
1.	Return to the engine room starboard side. \
	*	Check the condenser hotwell levels, auxiliary circulation pumps, and condensate pumps. \
	*	Check the main scoop and main circulation pump. \
	*	Check the turbogenerator governor HPU oil levels and discharge pressure [150 psi]. \
	*	Check the two aft potable pumps.\
	*	Check the bilges.\
1.	Go forward. \
	*	Check the starboard settling tank. Note which suction, if any, is open. Note the tank temperature [110 \'b0F]. \
	*	Check which fuel oil service pump is running. Note the discharge pressure [200 psi]. \
	*	Check which fuel heater is in service. \
	*	Check whether the fuel oil transfer pump is on. \
	*	Check the steam reciprocating bilge pump, if it is running. \
	*	Check the main feed pumps. Note the oil level, oil temperature and discharge pressure. \
	*	Check the fire pump. \
	*	Check the bilge pump. \
	*	Check the sea water service pump. \
	*	Check the two potable pumps. \
	*	Check the two Nash vacuum pumps. \
	*	Check the Wilden pump. \
	*	Check the main condensate pumps. Note the discharge pressure [70 psi]. \
	*	Check the levels in the main condenser hotwell and the atmospheric drain tank. \
1.	Go to AMR space. \
	*	Check the NYREX evaporator.  Check the steam supply pressures at 600/150 psi reducing station. \
	*	Check the W\'e4rtsil\'e4 auxiliary diesel generator. \
	*	Check the air compressors. \
	*	Check the fuel handling room. \
	*	Check the pumps in the AMR: evaporator, salt water, fire pump, two salt water flushing pumps, diesel cooling pump. \
	*	Check MSD.  Insure that the blowers are running and that the chlorine tank is not empty.  \
	*	Check the bilges.\
1.	Proceed to the upper console level. \
	*	Check the boiler drum level remote indicators. \
	*	Check the DC heater remote level indicators. \
	*	Check the drum pressure, superheater outlet temps. \
	*	Check the periscope, and the condition of the flames in the boiler peep holes. \
	*	Check the load on ship's generators. \
	*	Inspect the logbook. \
1.	Discuss the watch with the person to be relieved. 
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}