{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Before injection can be effective, the fuel pressure must be sufficiently higher than that of the combustion chamber to overcome the compression pressure. The high pressure also ensures penetration and distribution of the fuel in the combustion chamber. Proper dispersion is essential if the fuel is to mix thoroughly with the air and to burn efficiently. While pressure is a prime contributing factor, the dispersion of the fuel is influenced, in part, by atomization and penetration of the fuel. (Penetration is the distance through which the fuel particles are carried by the kinetic energy imparted to them as they leave the injector or nozzle. Friction between the fuel and the air in the combustion space absorbs this energy.) \
If the atomization process reduces the size of the fuel particles too much, they will lack penetration. Lack of sufficient penetration results in ignition of the small particles of fuel before they have been properly distributed or dispersed in the combustion space. Since penetration and atomization tend to oppose each other, a degree of compromise in each is necessary in the design of fuel injection equipment, particularly if uniform distribution of fuel within the combustion chamber is to be obtained. The pressure required for efficient injection and, in turn, proper dispersion is dependent on the compression pressure in the cylinder, the size of the opening through which the fuel enters the combustion space, the shape of the combustion space, and the amount of turbulence created in the combustion space. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}