{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red97\green16\blue51;\red6\green20\blue127;\red113\green55\blue249;
\red104\green18\blue137;\red0\green0\blue0;\red65\green107\blue34;\red16\green128\blue214;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c46300\c11000\c25900;\cssrgb\c2000\c14900\c57300;\cssrgb\c52500\c34100\c98400;
\cssrgb\c49000\c16100\c60800;\csgray\c0;\cssrgb\c31800\c48600\c17600;\csgenericrgb\c6100\c50000\c84000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 <blockquote>\
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 Omit needless words.  Vigorous writing is concise. \
A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not that the writer make all his sentences short, or that he avoid all detail and treat his subjects only in outline, but that every word tell.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 <attribution>Strunk and White, <pubtitle>The Elements of Style</pubtitle></attribution>\
</blockquote>\
\
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 Bad <mdash/>  <q>The type of friction which Statics focuses on is dry friction.</q>\
Good <mdash/> <q>Statics focuses on dry friction.</q>\
Bad <mdash/> <q>All normal forces on a FBD should be pointing at (and not away from) the body.</q>\
Good <mdash/><q>Normal forces on a FBD should point towards the body.</q>\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1395\sb400\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf3 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::2>
\f2\fs32 Which vs. That: How to Choose\
\pard\tx540\pardeftab720\li630\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf4 <!$Scr_Ps::2><$Scr_Ps::3>
\f1\fs28 	In a defining clause, 
\b use
\b0  that.\
	In non-defining clauses, 
\b use
\b0  which.\
	Remember, which is as disposable as a sandwich bag. If you can remove the clause without destroying the meaning of the sentence, the clause is nonessential and you can 
\b use
\b0  which.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf5 <!$Scr_Ps::3>
\fs28 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf6 \ul \ulc6 Consistency\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::1>
\f2\fs32 What's our point of view?  It is all over the place in the text. \
Formal or informal?\
Are we directing and guiding the students?  <q>You start by...</q>   \
Are we collaborating with the students?  <q>We can see that...</q> \
Are we the wise sage?  <q>Let us transition to the forces...</q>\
Should we avoid pronouns and just make statements?  <q>The result is...</q>\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \
<p><ul>\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf7 <!$Scr_Ps::0><$Scr_Ps::4>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 Say free-body diagram, not free body diagram, alternately you can say <acro>FBD</acro>. Never say FBD\'92s; you mean FBDs.\
Say two-dimensional problem, not 2D problem or <q>two dimensional</q>\
Say zero-force member\
There is no hyphen in two dimensions.\
\pard\tx560\pardeftab720\sl336\slmult1\sb60\sa60\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf8 <$Scr_Cs::5>
\f1\fs32 x
\f0\fs24 \cf7 <!$Scr_Cs::5>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  axis, not 
\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf8 <$Scr_Cs::5>
\f1\fs32 x
\f0\fs24 \cf7 <!$Scr_Cs::5>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 -axis.\
Use US for United States, not U.S.\
use double quotes <tag>q</tag> to set off a word as a word, or better still if it is a term, use <tag>term</tag> tag.\
Use unordered lists when order is not significant.  Use ordered lists for things that 
\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf6 <$Scr_Cs::6>
\f1\i\fs28 need
\f0\i0\fs24 \cf7 <!$Scr_Cs::6>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539  to be numbered, like a procedure.\
Punctuate ordered lists with periods at the end of each item. Punctuate unordered list like one long sentence  <ie/>, commas or semicolons at the end of each item except the last, which gets a period\
No <q>use your equations of equilibrium </q> Yes<q>the equations of equilibrium.</q>\
Spell out clockwise and counter-clockwise, unless in space is limited, like in a table or caption.\
Spell out numbers less than ten.\
Maintain consistent capitalization in chapter/section titles - use title case.  \
Chapter/Section titles are nouns, and short enough to fit in one line in the  pretext sidebar.\
Keep an eye out for 'emphasis' quotes or ALL CAPS.  Instead use the <tag>em</tag> tag.\
Statics or statics or mechanics?  I say statics for the subject, and Statics for the course.\
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf2 <!$Scr_Ps::4><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 </ul></p>
\f0\fs24 \AppleTypeServices <!$Scr_Ps::0>}