{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 A boiler explosion is a catastrophic destruction of the boiler caused by a rapid, uncontrolled combustion of fuel inside the furnace.  Boiler explosions occur when an *explosive mixture* of unburned fuel and oxygen in the furnace is ignited by an ignition source such as hot brickwork or an inserted torch.  The unburned fuel must be in vapor form to cause an explosion.  It may may be supplied by an unignited burner, or by evaporation of liquid fuel in contact with hot boiler surfaces. The oxygen is readily available through open register doors and from the forced draft fan. In order to be explosive however, the air/fuel ratio must fall within a certain range -- too much air, or too little, and the mixture will not be explosive, but with the right ratio and an ignition trigger...\
\
A *flareback* is small boiler explosion, which usually occurs during light-off. It extinguishes the atomizer fires and causes furnace gas and flame to blow into the fireroom through the burner peep hole an light-off port. While not as destructive as a boiler explosion, flarebacks can injure personnel and are a sign that something is wrong with your light off procedures -- insufficient purge, registers not opened, oil too hot or too cold, improperly assembled tips, etc. When lighting off, always wear a face shield and keep your face away from the peephole, just in case.  \
\
Boiler explosions occur most frequently during light-off, and the most common cause  is attempting to light or re-light a burner without a proper purge. The furnace must *always* be purged to remove or lower the concentration of explosive vapors before lighting off.  A five minute purge with the forced draft fan on high and the register doors wide open is sufficient to completely replace all air in the furnace.   Light off with a torch or an igniter; never attempt to light off by using the hot brickwork. Once the burner is lit, the air register must be opened wide immediately to supply enough air for good combustion.  If the boiler does not light of on the first try, review the light-off procedure before proceeding.  Repeated unsuccessful light-off attempts are a danger sign. \
\
Another dangerous condition occurs when liquid oil accumulates in the furnace. The hot surfaces in the furnace vaporize the oil and, with the right amount of oxygen, create potentially explosive situation.  This situation can occur after a loss of fires.  Normally this will be detected by the flame scanner and the fuel oil solenoid will secure the fuel supply. If this system fails, unburned fuel will spray into the furnace until the fuel is secured manually. Other possibilities include improperly assembled or damaged atomizers, that drip oil rather than creating a well formed spray pattern, and leaking or incompletely closed burner valves on secured burners. This situation will probably be accompanied by heavy black smoke that can not be cleared by adjusting the air flow. \
\
Purging is not sufficient when oil pools in a boiler. Any amount of unburned fuel pooled in the furnace should be considered dangerous. The boiler must be shut down and the accumulated oil removed by hand after the boiler has cooled.  
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}