{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 A stop-check valve is very similar to a globe valve, except that the disk is not   attached to the stem. When the valve hand-wheel is turned to the fully closed position   the disk is held against the seat and the valve is securely closed. When the valve   hand-wheel is turned to open the valve, the disk is free to lift off the seat, and will   when there is a pressure difference in the correct direction. If the flow reverses   direction, the valve will automatically close like a lift check valve. \
The valve stem can be used to force the disk to a partially closed position to   regulate the flow, or to a fully closed position to stop the flow, but the valve stem   cannot be used to force the disk into the open position. Once the stem is moved away   from the disk, the valve functions like a lift check valve. \
A typical application would be a boiler feedwater stop-check valve. The valve can be   used to stop or regulate feedwater flow to the boiler. It also automatically prevents   the back flow of water out of the boiler through the feedwater line if the pressure in   the feedwater line falls below the boiler steam pressure. In this application, it   functions as a check valve. \
In some designs, a stop-check valve can be converted to a regular globe valve, which   eliminates the check function and allows the disk to be forced into the open position,   by reinstalling the disk nut or drilling a hole through the upper disk and valve stem   and inserting a pin to lock them together. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}