{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 You must immediately extinguish fires if there is any doubt as to where the level is, either high or low.\
\
You must never add water to a boiler that has gone out-of-sight low until it has cooled, to avoid damage caused by water coming into contact with overheated pressure parts.\
\
If the boiler water level is falling gradually due to a slow leak or a feed problem but has not yet gone out of sight, you can slow down to reduce load on the boiler and feedwater demand, then attempt to restore the boiler level. You can reduce steam demand further by stripping the main switchboard of non-vital consumers, or by starting the auxiliary generator and tripping the turbogenerator.  Try to correct the problem while carefully watching the drum level and maintaining the level in sight.  If you are unable to restore the level, shut the boiler down, and operate on the other until the problem can be rectified. \
\
Some things to look for:\
\
*	Low feed pressure; try adjusting the feed pump controller set point\
*	Tripped feed pump; reset trip and restart\
*	DC heater empty; check make up feed system\
*	Feed pump recirculation valve open too wide; check and close \
*	Feed pressure lost through an idle feed pump; check and close\
*	Feedwater regulator failure; check control air pressure, switch to manual control or feed the boiler through the auxiliary feed line\
*	Feed pump nozzle being left shut\
\
If the drum level has gone out of sight, or is falling rapidly due to a major tube leak, you must initiate a forced boiler shutdown immediately.  Begin by securing the fires, slowing down and notifying the bridge.  Insure that the master sender is aligned to the remaining boiler. Then close the feed stops, the steam stops, and open the superheater vent.  Reduce the pressure in the boiler by jacking open a safety valve.  Let the furnace cool, drain the boiler, inspect the tubes, and repair the leak.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}