{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green52\blue52;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c26667\c26667\c26667;}
\pard\sb40\sa40\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
The word tapered indicates that these threads are not the same as those on bolts and screws. \
\
Pipe threads must not only make a strong mechanical connection but also a leakproof hydraulic seal. This is accomplished by the tapered thread form of the male matching the thread form of the female tapered thread and the use of pipe sealant to fill any voids between the two threads which could cause a spiral leak. The bottoms of the threads aren\'92t on a cylinder, but a cone; they taper. The taper is 1\uc0\u8260 16 inch per inch of length, which is the same as 3/4 inch in a foot.\
Because of the taper, a pipe thread can only screw into a fitting a certain distance before\'a0it jams. The standard specifies this distance as the length of hand tight engagement, the distance the pipe thread can be screwed in by hand. It also specifies another distance \'96 the effective thread, this is the length of the thread which makes the seal on a conventional machined pipe thread. For workers, instead of these distances, it is more convenient to know how many turns to make by hand and how many with a wrench. A simple rule of thumb for installing tapered pipe threads, both metal and plastic, is finger tight plus one to two turns with a wrench. Torque installation values can be determined per application, but due to the variations involved in pipe joints such as disimiliar materials of male and female threads, type of sealants used, and internal\'a0variations in product wall thickness, a standard torque specification cannot be generically applied.\
This table shows the distances and number of turns called for in the standard. A tolerance of plus or minus one turn is allowed, and in practice threads are often routinely cut shorter than the standard specifies. All dimensions are in inches.}