{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 If the machinery is making metallic noises, **stop and lock the shaft immediately**.  The main engine and gears will have to be will have to be opened and inspected, which may require a visit to a shipyard.\
\
For other noises or for vibration, slow down until the problem stops.  If the problem goes away when you operate below a particular speed, operate beneath that speed for 10-15 minutes before trying to speed up again.  Some problems, like a bowed rotor, incompletely drained casing, or cold lube oil may correct themselves as the turbine warms up.  Stop the engine if the problem persists. The turbine should never be operated at speeds that cause vibration.\
\
Try to pinpoint the cause of the noise or vibration.   Open the turbine casing drains. Shift over and inspect the lube oil strainers, looking for metallic particles.  Check the turbine axial position indicator, for evidence of thrust bearing failure.  Check all bearing temperatures and oil bubblers for normal flow.  Inspect all bearings, couplings and seals associated with the turbines, gears and shafting.  Inspect the turbine blades, gear teeth, and propeller.  Recovery will depend on the cause of the casualty and the extent of the damage.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}