{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx720\tx1350\tx4950\sb120\sa120\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs28 Loss of control air pressure is a serious situation with wide ranging effects. 80-95 psi *control air* is used to actuate almost all of the automatic regulating valves and reducing stations aboard the *Kennedy*. The feedwater regulator, feed pump governor,  reducing stations, the auxiliary exhaust make up and dump system, automatic make-up feed and many console actuated isolation valves all require control air to function.  Without control air, these devices and others must be bypassed or switched to local manual and controlled by hand in order to operate the plant.\
\
Your first indication of a control air casualty will be the sounding of the low control air pressure alarm, which occurs at about 60 psi.  You will also observe low and dropping pressure on the control air system pressure gage on the main console.  \
\
Leslie pneumatic control valves and regulators require 30 psi supply air to operate, so they will continue to function for a few minutes after the alarm sounds, until the pressure in the control air receiver drops below 30 psi.  At that point, the regulators will start to lose control and will move towards their *fail-safe* position.    The position, either fully open or closed, that automatic regulating valves take when the  air supply fails is selected by the designer to do the least harm or to facilitate hand control.   So, for example, the feedwater regulator will fail open and the feed pump will speed up to insure a feed supply to the boiler. The fireman is expected to manually control the drum level by adjusting the feed check valve.  Many regulating valves fail open, and can be manually closed by screwing down on their handwheel.\
\
Aboard the training ship, the most likely cause of loss of control air pressure is that someone has accidentally switched off the compressor.  Mechanical or electrical compressor failure is also a possibility, as is a major air leak in the system.
\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}