{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Fuel burns by chemically reacting with the oxygen in the air provided by the forced draft fans. An incorrect mixture of fuel and air will cause the boiler to produce smoke, which must be avoided to comply with environmental laws and maximize boiler efficiency. \
Since the chemical reaction of the combustion process is understood, and we know that air contains about 21% oxygen and 79% nitrogen, we can calculate precisely how many pounds of air are required to burn each pound of fuel completely. If the combustion control system admitted exactly this much air however, the combustion would still be incomplete, because we can\'92t insure perfect mixing of all the air with the fuel. Some of the available oxygen would never reach the unburned fuel droplets. To avoid this problem, a properly operated boiler always provides some <em>excess air</em> beyond the amount theoretically required, to insure complete combustion. Too much excess air will cause unnecessary heat loss up the smokestack, reducing the boiler\'92s efficiency. \
One way to monitor the amount of excess air is to watch the color of the smoke produced by the boiler. A properly operated boiler will have a colorless or light exhaust; black smoke indicates insufficient combustion air for the amount of fuel, and white smoke indicates the opposite. The boiler is equipped with a periscope smoke indicator which allows the operator to look through the stack to observe the color of the exhaust gases. The periscope should be checked frequently, and the fuel/air ratio adjusted as necessary to maintain a clear stack with a minimum of excess air. Be aware that a clear stack may still have too much air; try reducing the air until a light haze develops, then increase slightly. Be alert also that heavy white smoke appears black in the periscope because it completely blocks the light. \
Watching the color of the smoke is a fairly crude method to maintain proper oxygen trim. A more precise method is to use an oxygen monitoring system to detect the level of O2 in the stack gases and use it to adjust the excess air with a feedback control loop. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}