{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 A good engineer must have a thorough knowledge of the plant.  When you arrive onboard, trace out all major systems and learn the location of all critical valves, so that you can quickly locate and use them in an emergency.  You should particularly look for crossover valves that are not normally used, but which may become important for restoring service after a failure, and isolation valves for securing portions of piping systems.  You should also locate all available safety equipment, and the location of engineroom exits.\
You need to be thoroughly familiar with the normal operation of the plant. Without a knowledge of normal operating temperatures, pressures, noises, smells, vibrations, and familiarity with the way the system responds to changing loads, it is next to impossible for you to recognize the signs of impending trouble.  Most of this information can be obtained by good watchstanding -- making thorough rounds, remembering what you see, and reviewing the logbook for trends.  You can also refer to the ship's manuals and discuss normal operating conditions with the other engineers onboard.\
Finally, you should be completely comfortable with normal startup and shutdown procedures, because in many cases, the most appropriate response to a casualty is to quickly and safely start up a stand-by unit and secure the faulty one before things get worse.\
When a casualty occurs, you will need timely and accurate information.  The alarm and instruments on the console will probably be your first notification of a problem, so it is vitally important to keep them in good working order.  If a gage or thermometer gives any indication that is is faulty: sticking pointer, bogus readings, etc. it should be replaced, repaired, or re-calibrated without delay.  Console alarm points should be adjusted to minimize nuisance alarms.  Don't take anything for granted; always investigate every alarm on the board.  Don't become complacent and ignore alarms because "it was like that when I got here" or  "it always does that."\

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}