{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34\fsmilli17333 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Emergency Converter Control 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Each converter is fitted with a Local emergency Operating Panel (LOP) which is directly connected to the power electronic controller PLC. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 If the propulsion remote control system fails (a link failure between PPC and PECe, or all remote control stations failed), the propulsion can be operated from the actual converters in \'91StandaloneMode\'92 using the LOP. Thisf acility is usually for maintenance via r service engineers or trained operators. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 local operation allows running of the motor with the minimum security conditions (only those regarding the converter itself) and the operator must check that all conditions are fulfilled to run the equipment properly, (ie, manual start of the required auxiliaries). 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 At the LOP, the operator can :\
\'95 Control the cooling pumps.\
\'95 Start the converter power sequence.\
\'95 Set a speed set point.\
\'95 Read/reset faults.\
\'95 Read the converter main measurements. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 When the standalone mode is selected at the master converter, control is automatically transferred by the PPC to the LOCAL remote control station. So, when the standalone mode is released from the LOP, the control of the propulsion is at the LOCAL remote control station. 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 If standalone mode is selected at the slave converter, the active remote control station does not change (the slave converter receives its torque set point from the master converter). 
\f1\fs24 \

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14667 In standalone mode, the motors can only be controlled in \'91Speed\'92 mode only, there is no Power mode. 
\f1\fs24 \
}