{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\fs32 Steam pressure and temperature are important parameters to watch while the boiler is operating. Obviously, the purpose of the boiler is to produce steam at the correct pressure and temperature to be used by the main engine and auxiliary machinery. Under normal conditions these values are maintained by the combustion control system and should be relatively steady. A rising or falling steam value is a sure indication of an impending problem. You should carefully observe the normal operating range for the drum and superheater outlet pressures, and notify the engineer or take corrective action if these values deviate from normal. \
High steam pressure, if left unchecked will lead to the superheater safety valves lifting. Properly designed and maintained safety valves are capable of relieving the entire boiler to prevent a boiler explosion, but they should never have to open on a properly operated boiler. Low steam pressure will cause a loss of power at the main engines and generators. Failure to respond will lead to electrical blackout of the ship and loss of propulsion power. Incorrect superheat temperature is less harmful than incorrect steam pressure, but you should still note it and correct it if possible. High and low superheat temperatures often indicates another problem with the boiler such as dirty burners, excess air, or incorrect feed temperatures. On ships with controlled superheat, the superheater temperature control system may be faulty. \

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}