{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgray\c0;}
\pard\sb240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs32 Gage calibration
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32  involves comparing a gauge's readings against a known standard or reference to ensure accuracy and correct any discrepancies. Gages are initially calibrated at the factory, but they should also be recalibrated at regular intervals.  Recalibration helps to detect and correct drift, wear, or damage in the gauge, thus ensuring reliable performance. The frequency of recalibration depends on factors such as the gauge\'92s usage, the criticality of the measurements, and manufacturer recommendations.\
Two adjustments are usually made when performing a calibration.  \

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\b\fs32 Zero Adjustment
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 : This is typically done first. The gauge is checked at no pressure, and adjustments are made to set the pointer at zero. This ensures that the gauge has no offset error.\

\f0\fs24 \cf2 <$Scr_Cs::1>
\f1\b\fs32 Span Adjustment
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_Cs::1>
\f2\fs32 : After setting the zero point, the gauge is subjected to its maximum rated pressure to check the upper end of the scale. Adjustments are then made to ensure that the gauge reads accurately at this high-pressure point. This process might also include intermediate points to verify linearity across the span.\

\f0\fs24 <!$Scr_Ps::0>}